---
layout: post
title: I'm learning to be a better node in the human network.
tags:
 - essay
published: true
excerpt: Several times across several different online publishing systems and over 15 years, nevermind paper journals, I've lamented about the delta between my actual and my preferred existential experience. I resisted for some time, and still sometimes do, becoming an active component of the human social web. ---
Recently I've been learning the lesson that what we get out of life can be amplified by the degree to which we engage with others. There are behaviors and interactions found in even small groups of people that defy the single human unit. Consider how teaching others can help us learn more deeply those things we're explaining. This is necessarily impossible without an audience, even if that audience is only one other person (e.g., a child).

I still struggle with a balance, and don't wholly discount my preference for solitude. Just as "the world" (a semantically troubling term) exposes itself through the social graph in ways any one person will find it difficult to notice, there also is a vast wealth of cognitive sustenance available at least more easily, if not only, to a mind tuned exclusive of other people. Consider how paying attention only to your own voice can renew self-equanimity. It is so much easier to see the granular beauty and elegance of our experience when we can focus on it to the exclusion of other peoples' psychological trajectories.

The latter has been my model, my world view, for the better part of 43 years. I still have a twinge of worry that I'm being drawn to the dark side, that I'm selling out my mental integrity for the easy well-trodden paths. I figure I might as well collect some data and form more well-resolved conclusions.
