All of the discussion of productivity and efficiency and mindful ways to go about living are predicated on a single dependency: caring. Without this, everything, every decision, becomes hypothetical. Hypothetical calculus is more taxing for me because I don't have the full structure of everything laid out, nor even an abbreviated system map, such that I can navigate a route of appropriateness (by some metric) through the space of hypothetical options. It becomes cumbersome, and more, defeating.

It's necessary to separate caring about an idea from being attracted or drawn to an idea. Caring is a kind of personal summary mechanism which creates from an extant structure an ad hoc one, tuned to personal affinity, taste, patience, and respect. It seems to be the thing that separates humans from lesser creatures (I hate that phrase, but I'll use it for its universality): without caring, there is only the limbic, the hormonal toolchest for attention built on the senses and gross satisfaction; and the logical, the mathematical toolchest for attention built on abstract appraisals.

This is why my approach to a decision tends toward the extremes rather than the rational middle, where a mind will balance hormones and logic. Either I attempt, poorly, to sort things by their abstract representation; or I just take what I want in the moment without such weighty consideration. There is little in between.

Hormones aren't a useful tool for making long-term decisions. Logic isn't either, but it at least integrates a broader view of things so that its usable timeframe is beyond the next moment or two. Caring provides a means of abdicating the long view for immediate satisfaction, but generally _in service_ of the long view. That is, I don't just play video games or eat Doritoes all the time, but only when such provides a measure of calm or relaxation or release that makes the longer-view activity more bearable or even pleasant. Building a business is probably satisfying, but if it's always business that misses the point. In that case, the benefit of self-employment--a degree of autonomy--is subjugated by a demand for the part of self-employment that is mostly merely dealt with--the long hours and possibly chaotic structure. Without caring, if you're left with hormones and logic in separate houses, it's hard to get up in the morning.
