"What I'm here for is to figure out whether a negative reaction to the world is more a result of a clearer-than-not appreciation for the world, or more a result of physiological flaws in my brain that create psychological issues."

As she frequently does, like following a harsh director's commands, she immediately pipes up. "Well, how can you trust your brain? If there are neural pathways that are creating reinforcing negative cycles of perception, how can you trust what your brain thinks of things?"

I sit, pensive. It's a good question, maybe the first good question of our two sessions. "Good question," I say, and not much more, other than that I think I need to consider it if I'm honest about wanting to investigate all this.

A couple of days later, in the shower, I realize: it's not actually a good question, if its worth is defined by how well it seks to help me answer my question. My question is more along the lines of, "Is depression an actual malady, or just the most reasonable response to existence?" Whether I can trust my brain's estimation of the world only goes to the question of whether I have a malady or clear sight. My question was general, about the underlying conceptions of things and how they color our measure of them, not about whether me in particular.

There is little in the world--and by "the world" I refer to that thing which we alternatively refer to as "[c,C]reation" or "the universe" or whatever--which motivates our more positive-leaning responses to it. These derive from the inventions of our social relationships, from our insular collectives of hope and charity and industry. Clearly these are in the world, but they consitute little within the infinity of the world, as does any finite thing. Seven billion is a big number, but it is approximately zero within infinity.

The rest of the world seems quite reasonably behind our negative-leaning responses, using similar mathematical frameworks. Despair seems a reasonable emotion when our aspirations are pressed against the ineffably large fishbowl [ugh, work on this]. More than a matter of scale, the apparent fact that whatever meaning or purpose we feel in our lives, in the network of our species, or even of all species, is crafted from within those networks and does not alight from existence itself, makes all that meaning or purpose a fiction. Fiction can be fun, but when pressed to build a means of making fruitful decisions about existence, there is nothing but preference and circumstance to sort out our various methodologies.

Is there physiological depression which fabricates reason from this negativity, that convinces me of the scale and indifference of the world to all life let alone my single contribution? The math seems obvious, and I don't mean to imbue these reflections with--as Camus would call it--nostalgia. I can't claim my faculties are perfect and allow for perfect perception and analysis, but it seems that the question I posed doesn't depend on the ways in which I'm unwhole.

Is depression the most reasonable response to the world, and all supposed happiness just a desperate clinging to illusion, to allegory; or is depression truly a malady?
