---
layout: post
title: I need a morality simulator.
tags:
 - essay
published: true
excerpt: 
---
<!-- -->
I've talked, here or elsewhere, about finally committing to the enterprise of life. Rather than begrudging my ongoing biological existence, I've decided to give life the ol' college try. That's a privileged detachment from the ongoing existential brutality I expect is relatively common outside the US, though that may be a product of a selection bias. Maybe the world doesn't need to achieve the peculiar cocktail of self-indulgence and righteous condescension common in American culture in order to find whatever is happiness, however defined, and if so to use the US culture as the benchmark is to cast the world in a diffused, confusing light. But that's not the thrust here.

No I'm blathering on about the way in which I can make sense of what may be an inherently senseless phenomenon: human life. More pointedly, not just the perpetuation of metabolic processes, but the conscious life which emerges from choices, made mindfully or otherwise. I won't mire these thoughts in an exploration of the baselessness of any optimism, but I have failed to find any reason to think there are any resources to put against deciding how to live other than what amounts to wishful thinking.

The options for doing so seem to fall into two categories: hedonism, a not-so-careful exercise of whatever passions happen, riding a wave of happenstance and petulence; or the building of a system that allows for pursuits that cascade along a stairstep of time orientations. To frit or to fret. There is no reason save one not to just do as I see fit when I see fit, and that reason is that I inevitably wish I could've brought something to be which doesn't fit in the narrow logistical window of my passing fancy [or there's a better word there]. Writing a novel can certainly be an ephemeral practice, ergo NaNoWriMo, but finishing a novel is more than writing a novel and seems to benefit from patience and vision, each requiring structure that comes from something more than moment-by-moment choices.

Well if that's the way forward then let's do it well. One sensor undeniably senses less of the world than several sensors, and they arguably work better if their results can be networked and build a single multifaceted model rather than a mere fractured collection of impressions and sensations. Which is to say, even though I cling to a self-important superiority of vision or perception, I am better served by learning from and trusting others.

I may need to learn from and trust others despite their natures. Linkin Park lyrics are juvenile but despite their ardent intentions some of the songs actually speak to the human condition, contribute usefully to a model of the world. Mostly by virtue of the instrumental and vocal emotion, and the earnestness with which the two singers perform those childish lyrics, the strength of their belief therein.

People tell you things despite their intentions. They tell you things without knowing it. They tell you things they don't realize they know. People are nondeterministic sensors, and the way in which they share their data is indirect and fuzzy. I can use the concepts of data science or machine learning insofar as they provide useful analogues. For instance, a neural network or hierarchical regression model finds patterns in different sets of features and then models the relations of the sets themselves. The data under scrutiny may not readily make these relationships apparent. Enter the machinery of conscious pattern matching.

I can learn directly from people but often prefer their indirect information. Their songs without words. Their portraits without faces. Their narratives without stories. Where Fallout 3 aims to draw our attention to, among other things, direct us to their particular vision of the world and hope we come away with a new realization. Of their construction. Contrast to Minecraft, specifically to The Crafting Dead. There is no constructed narrative, no dialog trees. There is just survive and survive more.

The question comes after playing for a while, after pushing against the brutal frankness of the world: why? Why continue? No matter how long you play, no matter how many resources and food you gather, dying always lands you just as naked and vulnerable as ever.
