---
layout: post
title: 
tags:
 - essay
published: false
excerpt: 
---
Our lives mean nothing and this may allow them to mean everything. I don't know how much I believe that, but as the years pass I feel less confident in the nature and application of belief. That first sentence smacks of the brand of positivity that calls success whatever blindness to negativity can be maintained. It belongs in an Eckhart Tolle blurb or Buzzfeed list. It makes me vomit in my mouth a little.

For years now I've distilled, to the degree my faculties allow, all our obligatory good mornings and have a nice days, our held-open doors and our road rage. I've tried to find hints for the foundations of our cognition or consciousness, of how we make decisions, the bases and the heuristics. In this not-quite-rigourous, earnest wondering I've arrived at the same working hypothesis you might find in a 9th-grade poetry assignment: that nothing matters. In absolutes, at least.

It's among the most common of comparable hypotheses, this ultimate absurdity, but that's not the interesting part. I may as well ponder why fire burns, which I may and which I find interesting but knowledge of which won't change the fact that fire burns. The only thing I can do with the knowledge is stay mindful of how to incorporate fire into my life. This, too, is easy to find, in some dog-eared copy of Chicken Soup for the Categorical Soul or a Wikipedia entry on [nihilism] (link): you make your own meaning.

This is a cheap cleverness that strikes an awful balance between utility and generality. It offloads the meat of an answer, which will consist of some fashion of heuristic or methodology, onto the next logical question: how? How do we make meaning in our lives? What are its units, what are its elemental components, and what are the ionic and covalent bonds that not only merely hold pieces together but also give rise to useful [fix] materials? (Bad metaphor, maybe.) We're left by this answer just as much in the dark as if no answer had been given, but it's worse: the makeshift answer prematurely satisfies our intellectual curiosity and we're left wondering why, even after having been helped, we're still confused.

I only fairly recently made the first step toward my own answer. I answered the question "Will I commit to my continuity?" Waking each day, showering and brushing and driving and typing and cracking wise and driving and tickling and kissing, suffices for my basic needs but provides no framework for any kind of lively endeavors that require longer-term planning [fix]. The key to those longer-term plans is something approaching a consistent motivation for their execution. Losing weight with the implicit goal of achieving and maintaining some target weight is not a matter of a 30-day cleanse, of a six-month program, of a 90-day exercise regimen. Changing your average mass requires changing how you live, what you eat and how you move, and for good. To do that, especially at the beginning, you need not only to identify the means of change, not also to start the change, but to consistently care about changing while working to achieve the change. First, _and henceforth_, care.

Once I answered "Yes, I'll commit to my continuity," the easy part was done. Now there is to decide in what way I will continue, what that means even. I have come to liken it to working on a non-trivial math problem. There is no answer in the back of the book, no precise algorithm that once learned provides all solutions. The type of math problem I like to use most as the seed for this framework is what is generally called machine learning. By various methods one can create an algorithm or system of algorithms to find an answer to a given challenge. Note the article: "an". Not "the". The definite article, in this context, requires uniqueness, but a machine learning algorithm will search the solution space and return the first useful solution it finds. It doesn't search every conceivable solution as that is often, as with life, infeasible for theoretical or practical reasons.

You will receive for your efforts an answer that meets your specified error limit. It will give you an answer that is good enough, for some value of "good". This says a few things. First, that a "solution" is not always defined as a uniquely machined tool that matches only one concern but may merely be the wrench that fits sufficiently to loosen a bolt. Second, that there are possibly many equivalently useful such tools. Third, as a result of the first and second, that by "answer" you really mean "the thing that lets me get this thing done" and not "the one and only truth". This follows on from an admission of some ignorance, an admission that while you may have strongly indicated hypotheses for some claims that nevertheless they are only strongly indicated and further that they cover only some claims.

What I'm left with after all this is (a) a decision to continue living, but more than that, to engage living rather than just tagging along until I can tag along no more; (b) some measure of comfort with a version of "you make your own meaning" that fits my language and seems to offer more working surface; and (c) some notion that there are indefinitely many solutions to many or even most of the questions I'll have. What I'm left with, in short, is a smaller pile of things to decide on, all of which offer some resolution to a question but with no guarantee that any one will be the solution I want. These are left largely to my powers of interpretation and bravery. For instance, I overheard some discussion about me that seemed, tonally, closer to reprimand or reproach than appreciation. I was not party to the discussion nor did I hear all or even most of it, but I still concluded--interpreted--that it was condemnatory, and became upset as a result. I still don't know what the conversation was actually about, but the evidence is sketchy and circumstantial toward any conclusion so I have a choice: of those conclusions which are of equivalent fit, if I have nothing but an arbitrary choice to make, should I always choose the most dire result and its attendent distress? If all hypotheses are about equally underdetermined, which should I start with toward a *working* hypothesis, and what effect does this choice have on other choices and experiences?

Half empty or half full. The easy money is on half full: until you have evidence otherwise, wouldn't you choose to think better of your situation? Not me, not so far. Half full tastes like cheap hotel liqour, smells like Drakkar Noir, hangs on my frame like a Men's Warehouse get-up. It is intellectually and morally bankrupt. At least, it used to be. When looked at from the world in which I expect to eventually find some near-deterministic resolution to my questions, half full smacks of laziness and cowardice, throwing up my hands and giving up. And I'm not quite ready to say it isn't, that I'm not weakening finally. But in my careful logical attention to these ideas I can't evade the notion that I have incomplete information, incomplete capacity to derive information, and further that a full catalog of all facts and features is not sufficient to find a unique answer if no unique answer exists. It is inescapable that I have to choose from among a collection of answers with no clear superlative. The only choice left, again, is whether to assume the worst or assume the best.

Other matters attend this choice, of course. It isn't a static hypothesis but a working one. As new evidence becomes available, I would hope I'd reassess and adjust my expectations. Half full isn't blind faith. And of course there are ontological concerns, regarding how what I imagine I know compares to truth, and what truth is. It's still messy.

It's also vulnerable and maybe that's the hardest part. When failure is defined as the ratio of success to attempts, the obvious approach is to reduce the number of attempts. To try only those things which seem feasible. But if you include the number of things not attempted in the denominator, the only thing that changes the calculation is trying more stuff. I'm really uncomfortable with this approach but it's worth a try, driven as it is by my ponderous wheezing.
