Why should I write? I've whittled my experience of living, or at least of being conscious, to the infinitesimals and there is nothing left for which to rejoice. Rejoice is an axiom. It is taken for granted because it _can_ only be granted, by me or others, and does not imbue the universe. Criminy, with the "universe" business. It sounds so pompous and final and declarative and so obviously is beyond anyone's ken, but of course as with "the world" we don't really mean the actual universe, we mean "the universe". We...why do I speak for anyone else with this "we" business? Business.

My writing is about my writing, or--often as not--about my not writing. It's a product of taking the McGuffin too seriously when it's just a clumsy device where a clumsy device will do. But if you tap hard enough on any of these walls they're all made of McGuffins. It's McGuffins all the way down. So then this writing, it's an activity that seeks to produce itself. And I'll glibly point out that that applies equally well to life as ~we~ I know it. As far as I can tell, life exists for the sole purpose of existing, and perpetuates on the strength of that singular focus. The conflagrations of ambition and love and fear and self-deprecation are whirls of cotton candy that look imbued with form but which disappear at the merest attempt to metabolize them.

I am still occasionally given to an urge to write something. Sometimes that urge is to write about something specific or to a specific goal within the world. Often as not it's to write with the hope that I'll find a purpose at some point, because once upon a time writing felt good and satisfying and made me feel good or valuable and if I can recapture that feeling then continuing to exist won't be so toilsome. Maybe it's the way back to a younger and more blissfully ignorant me. When dreaming for something felt useful, or at least not entirely vapid. I _think_ though that if I go back to that cognitive/spiritual frame or whatever (making a kind of reference to an "inertial frame" for some unfuckingknown reason godshitfuck) and asked him he'd probably still say all his shit's pointless. Even so he did it and enjoyed it some so it's enviable these days.

I came to this writing window with some kind of feeble inspiration and either lost it in transit or, when faced with assembling the pieces of language necessary to communicate the idea was dithered and dissected into the nothing from whence it came. 
